paragraph:1
Technological advancements and cost reduction in medical equipment and disease diagnosis have greatly accelerated the adoption of state-of-the-art technologies in various hospitals [1,2]. The benefits of obtaining interactive and intelligent medical service based on knowledge discovery are rapidly growing. The accurate classification of different disease symptoms is essential in helping doctors carry out compatible treatment schemes for the disease. In contrast, traditional disease classification methods usually follow naive practices based on limited disease information, which might fail to further classify a disease according to symptoms at different treatment stages. In particular, for diseases with the characteristics of multiple similar treatment stages, various symptoms, and multi-pathogenesis, the accuracy and effectiveness of traditional classification algorithms are significantly lower. Therefore, it is crucial to find suitable approaches to accurately classify disease symptoms based on inspection reports.

paragraph:2
In general, medical doctors diagnose diseases and select treatment schemes based mostly on their personal experience and knowledge. Inadequate communication, experience exchange, and cooperation between young and senior doctors results in the failure of young doctors to learn and take guidance from the experience, diagnoses, and treatment plans of experienced senior doctors. For example, the determinants of patients’ and doctors’ delays in the diagnosis and treatment of colorectal cancer were discussed in [3]. Despite the generation and availability of abundant medical data related to patients, diseases, treatment plans and their results, these data are not appropriately analyzed to extract useful knowledge and not efficiently shared among doctors and hospitals. Due to the lack of diagnosis experience, fledgling medical doctors might have difficulty in correctly diagnosing a disease in a patient that has an atypical symptom; thus, they are clueless in prescribing effective treatment plans. Hence, the sharing and recommendation of medical knowledge can help fledgling doctors elevate their disease diagnosis and treatment experience. A recommendation system of disease diagnosis and treatment is developed to find a balance between the medical resources of developed and underdeveloped hospitals and between the medical knowledge of experienced doctors and inexperienced doctors.

paragraph:3
Because of the massive volume, variety, and continuous updating of medical data, the efficient processing of medical data and the real-time response of the treatment recommendation has become an important issue. Fortunately, parallel computing and cloud computing provide powerful capabilities to cope with large-scale data. Various hospitals have developed cloud-computing-based solutions for treatment guidance and have implemented various improvement measures for medical services. For example, Abbas et al. discussed a cloud-based health insurance plan recommendation system that implements a user-centered approach [4]. Apache Hadoop [5] is a famous cloud platform that is widely utilized in big data mining. Li et al. proposed an efficient tool for de novo peptide sequencing that utilizes the Hadoop cloud computing environment [6]. Apache Spark [7] is an excellent cloud platform that is suitable for data mining with iterative computation. Parallel programming models of Resilient Distributed Datasets (RDDs) and Directed Acyclic Graphs (DAGs) are supported by Spark, which is built in a memory computing framework. Benefitting from the RDD and DAG models, data caches are saved in memory, and iterations are performed on the same dataset directly from memory. Hence, the Spark platform is more suitable for data mining with iterative computation by saving huge amounts of disk I/O operation time.

paragraph:4
In this paper, we focus on medical resource sharing and treatment intelligence in big data and cloud computing environments and propose a Disease Diagnosis and Treatment Recommendation System (DDTRS). Large-scale historical inspection datasets are analyzed to derive disease-symptom clusters. Association relationships between diseases, diagnoses, and treatments are discovered in historical treatment records. Based on these relationships, valuable diagnosis and treatment plans of diseases are recommended to medical doctors and patients according to the current disease stages. Extensive experimental analysis indicates that the system recommends solutions effectively and accurately. Our contributions in this paper are summarized as follows.
•To effectively identify more accurate disease symptoms, especially for diseases with multiple treatment stages and multi-pathogenesis, a Density-Peak-based Clustering Analysis (DPCA) algorithm is introduced for patients’ disease-symptom clustering, depending on the symptoms extracted from large-scale historical inspection data.•To profusely utilize and share the valuable disease diagnosis and treatment knowledge of experienced doctors and developed hospitals, Disease-Diagnosis (D-D) and Disease-Treatment (D-T) association rules are defined and analyzed by the Apriori algorithm.•Interactive recommendation interfaces of DDTRS are designed and implemented for medical doctors and patients. Medical doctors and patients can access the inspection reports and the corresponding treatment recommendations at different treatment stages. They can update the inspection results in DDTRS to obtain recommendations.•To achieve the goals of high performance and low latency response, we parallelize DDTRS on the Apache Spark cloud computing platform. Massive volumes of medical data are stored in the Hadoop Distributed File System (HDFS), and a parallel solution is employed based on the RDD programming model.

paragraph:5
To effectively identify more accurate disease symptoms, especially for diseases with multiple treatment stages and multi-pathogenesis, a Density-Peak-based Clustering Analysis (DPCA) algorithm is introduced for patients’ disease-symptom clustering, depending on the symptoms extracted from large-scale historical inspection data.

paragraph:6
To profusely utilize and share the valuable disease diagnosis and treatment knowledge of experienced doctors and developed hospitals, Disease-Diagnosis (D-D) and Disease-Treatment (D-T) association rules are defined and analyzed by the Apriori algorithm.

paragraph:7
Interactive recommendation interfaces of DDTRS are designed and implemented for medical doctors and patients. Medical doctors and patients can access the inspection reports and the corresponding treatment recommendations at different treatment stages. They can update the inspection results in DDTRS to obtain recommendations.

paragraph:8
To achieve the goals of high performance and low latency response, we parallelize DDTRS on the Apache Spark cloud computing platform. Massive volumes of medical data are stored in the Hadoop Distributed File System (HDFS), and a parallel solution is employed based on the RDD programming model.

paragraph:9
The remainder of the paper is organized as follows. Section 2 reviews the related work. Section 3 introduces a disease diagnosis and treatment recommendation system, which consists of three core modules: a DPCA-based disease-symptom clustering process, a disease-treatment association analysis process, and recommendation interfaces. To reach the goals of efficiency and timeliness, the proposed system is parallelized in Section 4 using the Apache Spark cloud computing platform. Experimental and application results are presented in Section 5 with respect to recommendation effectiveness and performance. Finally, Section 6 concludes the paper with a discussion of future work and research directions.

end of line !

DOI:https://doi.org/10.1016/j.ins.2018.01.001

Periodical:Information Sciences

Keywords:Big data mining, Cloud computing, Disease diagnosis and treatment, Recommendation system, 

Title:A disease diagnosis and treatment recommendation system based on big data mining and cloud computing

Abstract:It is crucial to provide compatible treatment schemes for a disease according to various symptoms at different stages. However, most classification methods might be ineffective in accurately classifying a disease that holds the characteristics of multiple treatment stages, various symptoms, and multi-pathogenesis. Moreover, there are limited exchanges and cooperative actions in disease diagnoses and treatments between different departments and hospitals. Thus, when new diseases occur with atypical symptoms, inexperienced doctors might have difficulty in identifying them promptly and accurately. Therefore, to maximize the utilization of the advanced medical technology of developed hospitals and the rich medical knowledge of experienced doctors, a Disease Diagnosis and Treatment Recommendation System (DDTRS) is proposed in this paper. First, to effectively identify disease symptoms more accurately, a Density-Peaked Clustering Analysis (DPCA) algorithm is introduced for disease-symptom clustering. In addition, association analyses on Disease-Diagnosis (D-D) rules and Disease-Treatment (D-T) rules are conducted by the Apriori algorithm separately. The appropriate diagnosis and treatment schemes are recommended for patients and inexperienced doctors, even if they are in a limited therapeutic environment. Moreover, to reach the goals of high performance and low latency response, we implement a parallel solution for DDTRS using the Apache Spark cloud platform. Extensive experimental results demonstrate that the proposed DDTRS realizes disease-symptom clustering effectively and derives disease treatment recommendations intelligently and accurately.