paragraph:1
In the last decade, a number of computational collective mechanisms or paradigms, such as evolutionary algorithms, ant algorithms, and other swarm intelligence algorithms, have arrived in the scientific arena [8,31].

paragraph:2
The formulation of No Free Lunch Theorems (NFLTs) in 1997 by Wolpert and Macready revolutionized the methodology of examining and verifying new algorithms or new applications of the above-mentioned approaches. The most important result of NFLTs is the recommendation of the best performance from the proposed approach for specific parameter settings in special applications. Extensive study on population-based approaches has been devoted to the main advantage of this algorithm, i.e., the diversification mechanism in searching for the best solutions. The focus on the search mechanism via interactions between individuals can significantly reduce the time needed to find good solutions. Another concept used in these approaches is searching different subspaces and announcing promising regions, which is an opportunity to use these individuals to learn the landscape of the solution space. This method allows us to identify the next feature of this approach, i.e., the proper balance between exploration and exploitation of the solution space.

paragraph:3
Although the important aspects of hybridizing evolutionary computation using local searches for better effectiveness are often pointed out, there has been too little discussion of how indirect communication via pheromones in ant colonies can facilitate and enhance these endeavors. In general, collaborative learning posits that there are two types of collective interaction: positive (cooperative) and negative (competitive). A positive interaction occurs when individuals perceive that they can reach their goals if and only if the other individuals with whom they are cooperatively linked also reach the goal. There is a considerable amount of evidence that, in collective learning, an indirect form of interaction (via pheromones in agent ants) is more effective than the mechanism of spreading some premature knowledge or heuristic in the population-based algorithm without information regarding swarm intelligence.

paragraph:4
Many current methods utilize aspects of these mechanisms to increase performance, but none utilize them all, and few automatically apply these features. Emphasis should be placed on the automated construction of a body of knowledge, more specifically, on memes and meta-memes that collectively offer capabilities with a much broader problem-solving scope so as to deal with the class of problems under consideration [10,28,29,33].

paragraph:5
Memes are concepts that can be described as an extension of the gene idea used in the NFLT. Memes can be thought of as an extension of schemata, i.e., schemata that are modified and passed on during a learning process. This basic structure captures the essence of knowledge in the form of procedures that affect the transition of solutions during a search. In the process of solving a repertoire of problem instances, memes can accumulate knowledge based on the recurrence of patterns or structures. From basic patterns or structures, more complex (i.e., higher-level) structures can arise. This fact, observed in many different examples of swarm intelligence, is called emergent behavior.

paragraph:6
As can be observed, cultural memes, which are passed from generation to generation in a population of individuals, are slightly refined at each step as new ingredients are added to their representations. The mechanism that allows this transformation has generalizability. To communicate or interact an internal schema from one individual to another, it must be generalized into a common representation–such as a language, in the case of human society. This fact has produced a desirable effect in the context of ant colony optimization (ACO); therefore, we focus on both the pheromone matrix and the communication between agent ants.

paragraph:7
There are many local optima in the solution space when we treat the classification problem as an optimization problem. Therefore, it is possible to construct various classifiers that are of a very similar quality. When heuristic algorithms are used, one can test many solutions, which is impossible when employing statistical methods. Additionally, the fact that ACO algorithms achieve good results in solving graph problems suggests the use of these algorithms in constructing decision trees. It is not possible to directly use classical ACO algorithms, but it is possible to adapt the idea of these algorithms to applications in an Ant Colony Optimization for constructing decision trees.

paragraph:8
The aim of this paper is to determine the role that pheromones play in the Ant Colony Decision Tree (ACDT) algorithm, relative to the heuristic function. Moreover, we would like to analyze cooperation and communication between agent ants via the pheromone trail. Pheromone maps were prepared and the trends in laying the pheromone trail during the ACDT algorithm’s work were determined. None of these factors has ever been researched before; in this paper, we will consider this fact as a meme.

paragraph:9
This paper also aims to show how the ACDT algorithm can be formally written. The ant colony decision tree approach was first proposed by Boryczka and Kozak in [2,4]. Initially, it was an algorithm that constructed binary decision trees only for data with discrete attributes. A comparison of the results produced by the ACDT algorithm and results that were achieved by taking other approaches into account showed that the accuracy of classification was improved when classifiers were constructed using the ACDT algorithm. In subsequent studies, this algorithm was adapted to data that were described by continuous attributes, among other methods, by performing an inequality test on these attributes. The ACDT algorithm was also applied in H-bond data set analysis [24].

paragraph:10
The main contribution of this paper is to analyze the influence of a pheromone trail in the results obtained using the ACDT algorithm. Current research has not directly addressed studies concerning ACDT algorithm analysis. Thus, in this work, we examined the connection between the pheromone trail (treated as a representation of knowledge, where memes are being presented) and the process of construction of decision trees. This connection can be obtained without additional heuristic knowledge. Moreover, the decision tree balance ratio was created and tested (Eq. (29)). A carefully conducted pheromone trail analysis, and the results (presented as pheromone maps), confirmed our expectations. These outcomes establish new directions in our field of study.

paragraph:11
This article is organized as follows: Section 1 presents an introduction to this article. Section 2 reviews ACO, the decision tree, and related work. The classification problem is presented in Section 3. Section 4 presents a formal definition of the ACDT approach. Section 5 presents an experimental study that was conducted to evaluate the performance of the ACDT algorithm (specifically, the version with a pheromone trail), the heuristic function, and reinforcement learning via pheromones. Finally, we conclude with general remarks on this work and provide some directions for future research.

end of line !

DOI:https://doi.org/10.1016/j.ins.2016.08.051

Periodical:Information Sciences

Keywords:Ant colony optimization, Computational intelligence, Data mining, Decision trees, 

Title:Collective data mining in the ant colony decision tree approach

Abstract:This paper considers the topic of cooperation between agent ants in an Ant Colony Optimization (ACO) algorithm that is used to construct decision trees (Ant Colony Decision Tree or ACDT). To follow a suitable methodology, the paper presents a formal definition of the ACDT algorithm with a focus on the influence that Ant Colony Optimization algorithms have on the obtained results. The aim of this paper is to provide the rationale for using swarm intelligence (i.e., ACO) in the process of constructing decision trees. Many experiments were conducted to provide a solid justification. These experiments tested cooperation between agent ants in ant colony algorithms with different ACO performance scenarios: the application of only a pheromone trail, the application of only a heuristic function, the application of both components, and the application of neither component. Additionally, different values of the pheromone trail were tested at various stages of the algorithm’s operation and pheromone representations were presented. The experiments were conducted on 30 publicly available data sets; all observations were preceded by statistical tests. This paper confirms that it is reasonable to use the pheromone trail and balanced heuristics. Moreover, we found that, for the ACDT algorithm, good results can also be obtained without heuristics.