paragraph:1
The classification of food samples based on their chemical composition provides useful information for a variety of purposes, such as recognition of geographical origin and authenticity, the characteristics of a product, quality control for companies, preservation, and category differentiation (Barbosa et al., 2015; Barbosa, Nacano, Freitas, Batista, & Barbosa, 2014b; Khanmohammadi et al., 2014; Liu, Yang, & Deng, 2015; Maione, Batista, Campiglia, Barbosa, & Barbosa, 2016; Qiu, Wang, Tang, & Du, 2015; Soltani & Omid, 2015). When it comes to organic food, authenticity is a substantial matter and a current concern of the organic industry. Foods are considered organic when they (or their ingredients) are cultivated free of the use of external substances such as pesticides, hormones and chemical fertilizers. Due to their regimented methods of production and cultivation, risks faced, and some particular rules that producers must follow, organic foods are more expensive than conventional foods. However, customers who appreciate organic food are willing to pay their higher price because they are relatively more beneficial to health and friendlier to the environment (Hughner, McDonagh, Prothero, Shultz, & Stanton, 2007). However, because there are no major visual differences between organic and conventional food, and the concept of “organic” refers to production methods and not the products’ characteristics themselves, the customers must rely on certificates to confirm the authenticity of the organic food they are buying, and even these can be fraudulent. Another important issue regarding organic food is its composition, and the behavior of its mineral components. Which specific elements are fundamental for differentiating organic food from conventional food? Which elements can be found in larger concentrations in organic food than in conventional food and vice versa?

paragraph:2
Several analytical strategies exist for the authentication of organic foods of plant origin. These include infrared spectrometry (Cozzolino, Holdstock, Dambergs, Cynkar, & Smith, 2009), the measurement of stable isotope ratios such as 15N/14N (δ15N) (Kelly, Heaton, & Hoogewerff, 2005), metabolomics (Zorb, Langenkamper, Betsche, Niehaus, & Barsch, 2006), the analysis of phenolic compounds (Granato, Koot, Schnitzler, & van Ruth, 2015; Wang, Chen, Sciarappa, Wang, & Camp, 2008) and copper chloride crystallization (Huber et al., 2010). Previous work in our group has investigated the analytical potential of ICP-MS for the authentication of organic coffee (Barbosa et al., 2014a) and sugar cane (Barbosa et al., 2015) samples.

paragraph:3
This manuscript presents a data mining study of organic grape juice and details the conception of classification models for organic and conventional food based on levels of elements obtained by inductively coupled plasma mass spectrometry (ICP-MS) analysis. Although ICP-MS has been applied to the determination of metals in grape juice samples (de Assis, Küchler, Miekeley, & da Silveira, 2008), our literature search revealed no previous reports of a study of the mineral composition of organic grape juice neither did any try to differentiate organic from conventional grape juice. Therefore, our proposed methodology consists of data mining techniques which aim for the differentation of organic and conventional grape juice and analysis of its mineral components is pioneer. We focus on variable selection in order to understand which components best describe each type of juice and which ones show a homogeneous behavior in both of them.

paragraph:4
The main contributions of this paper are•We provide a detailed data mining methodology that can be adapted and utilized for the differentiation of any type of food organically or conventionally grown. This methodology is useful for verifying authenticity, geographical origin, chemical component behavior and other useful information;•We approach a new and interesting issue, which is differentiation of organic and conventional grape juice based on its chemical components;•We employ data mining concepts and techniques, which are emerging and efficient technologies for data analysis;•We provide a detailed view of the behavior of organic and conventional grape juice chemical components, and recognize which components are most important for differentiating organic grape juice from conventional grape juice.

paragraph:5
We provide a detailed data mining methodology that can be adapted and utilized for the differentiation of any type of food organically or conventionally grown. This methodology is useful for verifying authenticity, geographical origin, chemical component behavior and other useful information;

paragraph:6
We approach a new and interesting issue, which is differentiation of organic and conventional grape juice based on its chemical components;

paragraph:7
We employ data mining concepts and techniques, which are emerging and efficient technologies for data analysis;

paragraph:8
We provide a detailed view of the behavior of organic and conventional grape juice chemical components, and recognize which components are most important for differentiating organic grape juice from conventional grape juice.

end of line !

DOI:https://doi.org/10.1016/j.eswa.2015.11.024

Periodical:Expert Systems with Applications

Keywords:Feature selection, Data mining, Classification, Support vector machines, Neural networks, 

Title:Comparative study of data mining techniques for the authentication of organic grape juice based on ICP-MS analysis

Abstract:Authenticity is a substantial matter and a current concern of the organic food industry. Organic foods are appreciated by customers because of their benefits to health and friendliness to the environment. However, currently, the most common way for customers to confirm that the organic food they are buying are organic is by certificates and label information, which can be fraudulent. Furthermore, it is interesting to gain insight into organic food composition and visualize which mineral components are fundamental in the differentiation of organic from conventional food. This work addresses these problems using data mining concepts and techniques in a comparative study of organic and conventional food focusing on grape juice, but the proposed methodology can be adapted and employed for analysis of other types of organic food. This article presents a data mining analysis of the elemental composition of 37 grape juice samples collected from different locations in Brazil. The elemental composition of grape juice samples was determined by inductively-coupled plasma-mass spectrometry (ICP-MS). Forty-four elements were determined in the two types of samples, namely organic and conventional grape juice. Special effort was devoted to selecting the variables (elements) that best described each type of grape juice. Predictive models based on support vector machines, neural networks and decision trees were developed to successfully differentiate organic from conventional grape juice samples. We found that, according to the F-score, Chi-square and Random Forest Importance variable selection measures, the components Na, Sn, P, K, Sm and Nd are among the most important variables in the differentiation of organic and conventional grape juice samples. Particularly, the components Na, Sn and K received first, second or third position according to at least two methods. On the other hand, all variable selection methods considered indicated that Ag, Zn, Cr, Be and Pd were among the least important variables for the differentiation of organic and conventional grape juices. SVM yielded an accuracy of 89.18%, both CART and MLP achieved an accuracy of 86.48%.