paragraph:1
Knowledge services (KSs) are ways to deliver content-based intellect in line with user demands (Quinn, 1992). KSs often play a critical role in the creation of competitive business advantages for firms seeking new business opportunities through their knowledge base. A firm accumulates knowledge attained from KSs (namely, external sources) and also maintains a growing repository of internal knowledge that is shared within the firm (Nonaka & Takeuchi, 1995). This knowledge base can be a key source for generating business competitiveness, as knowledge is transformed into business opportunities (Kogut & Zander, 1992), and tactics and strategies (Nonaka, 1994).

paragraph:2
While the importance of knowledge has been stressed upon as a core aspect of business management, it is essential to ensure the effective utilization of that knowledge to execute a successful business. This underscores the need for knowledge management, wherein knowledge can be understood under diverse perspectives depending on its definition and applications (Alavi & Leidner, 2001). Because KSs and knowledge transfer typically involve social interactions and economic relationships, research and development (R&D) expertise does not automatically translate into innovation or entrepreneurial activity. To reach the market, any invention and entrepreneurial activity must undergo a lengthy process of refinement, reinvention, and redefinition (Nelson & Romer, 1996). Also, the adoption and spread of tacit and social knowledge depend on the cumulative experience and organizational structures of public and private institutions (Edmondson, Winslow, Bohmer, & Pisano, 2003). As the institutional loci of the new knowledge sources can differ, they can tap into these sources with the help of diverse organizations such as knowledge-intensive consulting firms, universities, and public research institutes (PRIs) (Grimpe & Kaiser, 2010).

paragraph:3
PRIs play a critical role in the creation, discovery, and diffusion of knowledge for public and domestic industries via governmental policies (OECD, 2011). To achieve their goal, many PRIs, which focus on national economic performance, provide market-oriented services to the public. These services include educational activities, technology and knowledge transfer, support on public policies, etc., depending on the mission and rationale of the PRIs. In a case of the KSs for industries, the technology and knowledge assistance provided by the PRIs have spurred many firms to establish a new business or expand an existing one, which can foster national economic growth (P. OECD, 2010).

paragraph:4
A systematic KS-level assessment is necessary from the following three perspectives. First, from the perspective of firms, knowledge outsourcing strategy is important wherein they can selectively concentrate on strategically important business activities by gaining knowledge from external sources, improving their capability to generate competitive advantages (Mudambi & Tallman, 2010). However, we note that knowledge processing involves difficulties pertaining to knowledge generation and its high cost so that it involves sharing of a firm's knowledge, which can be one of its most critical sources of business competitiveness, and exposes the firm to confidentiality vulnerabilities with regard to third-party transactional partners. These properties may discourage the use of knowledge transactions by firms in the market (Tallman & Shenkar, 1994). The relationships among collaborators involved in knowledge-intense activities such as R&D have also been emphasized (Levitt & Thelwall, 2016; Morillo, 2016). PRIs, as government-oriented organizations interested in public and national profits, can be trustworthy knowledge-sharing providers, and in order to fulfill this role, first and foremost, they must be capable of providing valuable KSs.

paragraph:5
Second, from an institutional perspective, evaluating the contribution of KSs can help the institutional management of PRIs. PRIs need to achieve many goals using the limited resources at their disposal. Under these circumstances, the resources need to be allocated wisely in order to obtain the best results. Thus, a systematic analysis on the contribution of KSs may guide the PRIs as to which KSs should be focused upon.

paragraph:6
Third, from a governmental perspective, PRIs, especially in the case of Korea (OECD, 2011), have evolved to fulfill governmental goals and social needs; their missions have changed over time in consideration of these goals and needs. Accordingly, the chronological changes in business environments necessitate the development of new services and/or modifications to existing services in a timely manner. Such changes in services can affect scientific and technological knowledge diffusion from the PRIs, in turn accelerating firms’ business because of the improvements in the KSs. Successful domestic businesses can be a stimulus for national economic growth and improved competitiveness.

paragraph:7
Care should be taken while evaluating the contribution of KSs because of the following aspects: a) a KS may affect business activities to a greater extent than originally envisaged, b) rather than using the service in its generic form, many KSs are customized to optimize service efficiency, and c) firms generally use as many KSs as possible to secure their business competitiveness.

paragraph:8
It can be difficult to disentangle the contribution of the KS from the firm's own performance. Although the KS is likely to have a specifically designed coverage targeting particular business activities, it may directly and/or indirectly create an unexpected ripple effect on other aspects of the business. For example, because of their insufficient capabilities, many small- and medium-sized enterprises (SMEs) try to acquire knowledge from external organizations as part of their R&D process. Although a KS for such SMEs is mainly directed toward R&D activities, its impact may spread to most other operational activities of the business, in that decisions taken for R&D regarding a new product development (NPD) procedure can impact the operational steps down the line.

paragraph:9
Moreover, the customization of KSs by PRIs hinders the recipients from specifying their respective impacts. As the complexity of the business environment has increased in today's modern society, the notion about the role of PRIs has evolved too, and they are expected to support social needs in terms of not only scientific research but also industrial competitiveness (OECD, 2011). Accordingly, the PRIs deliver their products in customized forms (often taking the form of market-oriented projects) in order for firms to generate the maximal outcome designed to increase their competitiveness. Besides, the content of the KSs provided by a PRI can be closely related to each other in the purpose of raising the efficiency of the KSs. These cause irregularities in the forms and content of KSs, leading to difficulties in assessing them in a standardized manner.

paragraph:10
In addition, the coverage range of a KS provided by a PRI may overlap those of the other KSs in terms of business activities. Most firms exploit multiple KSs to obtain the maximum possible knowledge support. This is because they want to acquire maximal business competitiveness at minimal cost, thereby causing difficulties in distinguishing the effect of a specific KS from those of the other KSs being used by the firm.

paragraph:11
The objective of this study is to quantify the contribution of the attributes of KSs (AKSs) provided by a PRI to firms’ business performance using a data mining-based model and a survey dataset collected from the firms. We assess the contribution of the attributes of KSs to firms’ business performance to reduce the ambiguity caused by the aforementioned issues in direct evaluation of the contribution of KSs. By evaluating the contribution of each attribute of the KSs, we can specify how much the attributes of the KSs has an effect on business performance of firms and can conduct the assessment of KSs in a unified approach regarding various forms of the KSs. Also, it facilitates the assessment considering the overlapping coverage ranges of KSs and/or the cumulative effects from the simultaneous use of multiple KSs.

paragraph:12
We propose a methodology that expresses the relationship between the AKSs and firms’ business performance indicators (BPIs) in a regression model, and assess the contribution of each attribute to the BPI using a data mining-based variable assessment approach. Specifically, a non-parametric regression, the random forest (RF) regression, is employed to explain the relationship between the AKSs generated from the AKSs and BPIs. Then, a variable importance assessment method in regression is applied to score the relative importance (or contribution) of each AKS. Our proposed methodology is flexible as it can study the attributes of various KSs depending on the researchers’ interests.

paragraph:13
Our proposed approach can help us identify which AKSs are more effective at improving firms’ performance. Indeed, the resultant importance scores can serve as a guideline as they highlight the most important attributes of the KSs. Thus, firms can focus on managing KSs that are identified as having important attributes, in order to maximize their effects given the limited resources available to them. The identification of the critical attributes of KSs can also facilitate the efficient design of a new and improved KS. Moreover, the relationship between governments and industries can be strengthened by improving the KSs provided by the PRIs, who act as a bridge between these stakeholders as well as reliable partners/sources for knowledge. Finally, it is expected that the market will register improved economic growth, as high-quality KSs will encourage firms to perform better.

paragraph:14
The rest of this paper is organized as follows. Section 2 presents a review of the relevant literature. Section 3 discusses the new methodology for assessing the contribution of AKSs to the BPIs of firms. Section 4 provides a case study whose computational results from our proposed methodology are presented and analyzed. Section 5 concludes this study and suggests avenues for future work.

end of line !

DOI:https://doi.org/10.1016/j.eswa.2017.04.057

Periodical:Expert Systems with Applications

Keywords:Knowledge service assessment, Public research institute, Data mining, Variable importance, Relative contribution score, 

Title:Data mining-based variable assessment methodology for evaluating the contribution of knowledge services of a public research institute to business performance of firms

Abstract:This study proposes a methodology for assessing the contribution of knowledge services (KSs) provided by a Korean public research institute to the business performance of firms. A new methodology based on a data mining-based variable assessment method in a regression model is proposed for the service-level assessment. The contribution of the KSs to firms’ business performance is analyzed using their attributes and specific business performance indicators through the conditional variable permutation method in the random forest regression. This reduces the ambiguity in variable importance caused by the correlations among input variables. The proposed methodology is applied to the survey dataset collected from firms. The survey dataset is examined 1) for the whole data and 2) for a subset of the data, namely, small- and medium-sized enterprises (SMEs). The empirical results show behavioral properties of firms with regard to the given KSs in general and SMEs in particular. Practical and user-friendly service product types increase the firms’ expectation on business performance. Also, flexibility in the service products helps firms acquire much-needed knowledge and boosts their expectation on business performance. In particular, SMEs expect better business performance from the KSs that help them create business plans and strategies.