paragraph:1
Dynamic programming (DP, Bellman, 1957) is a common approach for developing intelligent systems that must dynamically adapt over time (e.g., Si, Barto, Powell, & Wunsch, 2004, White & Sofge, 1992). However, DP problems with high dimension are known to be difficult to solve. Exact solutions are only possible for small DP problems or under very limiting restrictions (linear dynamics, Gaussian random variables and quadratic cost). Approximate DP (ADP) methods now exist (Si et al., 2004), but still encounter issues in computational-tractability and approximation quality. In this paper, we focus on finite-horizon stochastic DP with multicollinear continuous-state variables. The ADP literature ignores the issues of multicollinearity. In some real world applications, multicollinearity can be quite high. We demonstrate our methods on an ozone pollution air quality case study from Atlanta, Georgia. The state variables consist of concentrations of ozone and its precursor gases that are monitored over multiple time stages defined from 4:00 AM through 7:00 PM. The decision variables are the reductions in precursor gas emissions at various locations in the defined time stages. The objective is to identify the minimal reduction in emissions in each time stage required to maintain the ozone level at or below the required standard set by the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) throughout the day. For this case study, high multicollinearity exists between the concentrations of ozone that are observed over time and at different locations around Atlanta.

paragraph:2
Most continuous-state problems require an ADP algorithm that approximates the continuous optimal value function via sampling or discretization of the state space. Chen, Ruppert, and Shoemaker (1999) introduced a statistical perspective of this approximation concept, by recognizing that state space discretization is analogous to design of experiments (DOE), and the approximation of the optimal value function is analogous to statistical modeling. This is now called a design and analysis of computer experiments (DACE) based ADP approach, where the computer experiment is the optimization that occurs in each (time) stage of the DP. In ideal DOE, orthogonality is a highly desired property (Chen, Tsui, Barton, & Meckesheimer, 2006); therefore, DOE is not appropriate for directly representing the state space when the state variables are multicollinear. Another issue due to the multicollinearity in a state space is that the collinear variables contain similar information, which means there is redundant information. A principal danger of this redundancy is it will result in overfitting of the statistical model. In statistics, even though the multicollinearity issue does not decrease the predictive power of the model within the fitted sample data set, small changes in the data or the model may change the coefficient estimates of the regression model erratically, which indicates the created regression model is not robust when applied to new data (Kutner, Nachtsheim, Neter, & Li, 2004). Therefore, considering these, this paper studies data mining (DM) approaches to address multicollinearity in a DP state space. DM methods are applied for two reasons: (1) to reduce the state space dimensionality of a DP problem, and (2) to orthogonalize a DP state space, so as to enable the use of ideal DOE.

end of line !

DOI:https://doi.org/10.1016/j.eswa.2017.01.020

Periodical:Expert Systems with Applications

Keywords:Data mining, Design and analysis of computer experiments, Approximate dynamic programming, Ozone pollution, 

Title:Data mining for state space orthogonalization in adaptive dynamic programming

Abstract:Dynamic programming (DP) is a mathematical programming approach for optimizing a system that changes over time and is a common approach for developing intelligent systems. Expert systems that are intelligent must be able to adapt dynamically over time. An optimal DP policy identifies the optimal decision dependent on the current state of the system. Hence, the decisions controlling the system can intelligently adapt to changing system states. Although DP has existed since Bellman introduced it in 1957, exact DP policies are only possible for problems with low dimension or under very limiting restrictions. Fortunately, advances in computational power have given rise to approximate DP (ADP). However, most ADP algorithms are still computationally-intractable for high-dimensional problems. This paper specifically considers continuous-state DP problems in which the state variables are multicollinear. The issue of multicollinearity is currently ignored in the ADP literature, but in the statistics community it is well known that high multicollinearity leads to unstable (high variance) parameter estimates in statistical modeling. While not all real world DP applications involve high multicollinearity, it is not uncommon for real cases to involve observed state variables that are correlated, such as the air quality ozone pollution application studied in this research. Correlation is a common occurrence in observed data, including sources in meteorology, energy, finance, manufacturing, health care, etc.