paragraph:1
Data mining is most commonly used to derive association rules from transaction data [1]. A variety of mining approaches based on the Apriori algorithm [1] have been proposed [4,32]. Most of them focus on finding association rules on a single level, and many approaches have been proposed for mining multi-level association rules to discover more specific and important knowledge from data [14,33].

paragraph:2
Most of the approaches mentioned above focus on binary-valued transaction data, but data in real-world applications usually consist of quantitative values. Fuzzy data mining algorithms have thus been proposed for handling quantitative transactions and mining fuzzy association rules [5,17,26,35]. As for multi-level fuzzy mining, according to the given fuzzy generalization hierarchies, Lee proposed a generalized fuzzy quantitative association rule mining algorithm [23], and Hong et al. proposed a multi-level fuzzy association rule mining approach [18]. Their method first transforms quantitative transactions into fuzzy values using the predefined membership functions and taxonomy, and then a top-down progressively deepening approach is used to find large itemsets and rules. Additionally, in order to reduce the time complexity, only the linguistic term with the maximum cardinality of each item is used in the later mining processes. In [21], Kaya and Alhajj proposed a weighted fuzzy rule mining approach based on Hong et al.’s approach. In 2008, Lee et al. proposed a fuzzy mining algorithm for discovering generalized fuzzy association rules with multiple supports of items to extract implicit knowledge from quantitative transaction data [27].

paragraph:3
These earlier approaches all assume that the membership functions are known in advance. However, the given membership functions may have a critical influence on the final mining results. In the past decade, some genetic systems and approaches for knowledge engineering have been proposed, such as genetic tuning, genetic KB learning, and genetic rule learning [12,24]. Various genetic-fuzzy mining (GFM) approaches have also been proposed to derive appropriate membership functions and mining fuzzy association rules [2,6,16,20,22]. Kaya and Alhajj proposed a genetic algorithm (GA)-based approach to derive a predefined number of membership functions to obtain the maximum profit within a user-specified interval of minimum supports [20]. Hong et al. also proposed a GFM algorithm for extracting both association rules and membership functions from quantitative transactions [16]. Alcala-Fdez et al. then modified this approach and proposed an enhanced approach based on the 2-tuples linguistic representation model [2]. Matthews et al. proposed a temporal fuzzy association rule mining with the 2-tuples linguistic representation [29]. In addition, multi-objective GFM approaches have been proposed [6,22,28].

paragraph:4
However, these GFM algorithms focus on a single level. Few works have focused on multi-level GFM algorithms. In [7], the present authors proposed a multi-level GFM algorithm for mining membership functions and fuzzy association rules with taxonomy. Since decision-makers may consider different criteria in real applications, multi-objective optimization problems have become increasingly important. The present study thus proposes a multi-objective multi-level GFM (MOMLGFM) algorithm for mining sets of membership functions and fuzzy association rules. According to the given taxonomy, the algorithm first encodes the membership functions of each item class (category) into a chromosome. Two objective functions are then used to evaluate the fitness value of each individual. The first one is the summation of the large 1-itemsets of each item in all concept levels. The second one is the suitability of membership functions in each chromosome. After the evolution process terminates, sets of membership functions can be used for mining multi-level fuzzy association rules according to the different criteria of the decision-makers.

paragraph:5
The remaining parts of this paper are organized as follows. The GA-based multi-objective optimization problem is stated in Section 2. The multi-objective genetic algorithm (MOGA)-based multi-level fuzzy data framework is described in Section 3. The components of the proposed approach are described in Section 4. The details of the proposed algorithm are given in Section 5. An illustrative example is presented in Section 6. Experiments to show the performance of the proposed algorithm are reported in Section 7. The conclusion and future work are stated in Section 8.

end of line !

DOI:https://doi.org/10.1016/j.knosys.2013.09.002

Periodical:Knowledge-Based Systems

Keywords:Data mining, Fuzzy sets, Fuzzy rules, Multi-objective genetic algorithm, Taxonomy, 

Title:MOGA-based fuzzy data mining with taxonomy

Abstract:Transactions in real-world applications usually consist of quantitative values. Some fuzzy data mining approaches have thus been proposed for deriving linguistic rules from such transactions. Since membership functions may have a critical influence on the final mining results, several genetic-fuzzy mining approaches have been proposed for mining appropriate membership functions and fuzzy association rules at the same time. Most of them, however, focus on a single level and consider only one objective function. This paper proposes a multi-objective multi-level genetic-fuzzy mining (MOMLGFM) algorithm for mining a set of non-dominated membership functions for mining multi-level fuzzy association rules. The algorithm first encodes the membership functions of each item class (category) into a chromosome according to the given taxonomy. Two objective functions are then considered. The first one is the knowledge amount mined out at different levels, and the second one is the suitability of membership functions. The fitness value of each individual is then evaluated using these two objective functions. After the evolutionary process terminates, various sets of membership functions can be used for deriving multi-level fuzzy association rules according to decision-makers. Experimental results on the simulated and real datasets show the effectiveness of the proposed algorithm.