paragraph:1
Healthcare has become one of the largest industries globally, and as such, it consumes a large amount of resources. In recent years hospital readmission has become a major topic of discussion in the U.S. healthcare system due to significant unnecessary costs associated with it. In 2004 about one-fifth of the Medicare beneficiaries were readmitted to hospitals within 30 days of discharge. It was estimated that the unplanned readmission of Medicare patients cost $17.4 billion (Jencks, Williams, & Coleman, 2009). Many of the preventable readmissions were related to low quality of care during patient stays in the hospital, as well as to poor arrangement of the discharge process (Malnick, Balla, & Schattner, 2008). Hospital readmission rate is thus recognized as a quality indicator of inpatient care for which effective, preventative interventions can be implemented (Hasan et al., 2010). The Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services (CMS) has launched a readmission payment reduction program in which hospitals are financially penalized when Medicare patients are rehospitalized within 30 days of discharge (Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services, 2012a). Thus, it is advantageous for hospitals to reduce their readmission rates by using effective and efficient interventions during patient stays and the discharge process. Currently, the finalized readmission penalty program focuses on acute myocardial infarction (AMI), heart failure (HF), and pneumonia (PN) since the readmissions from these diagnoses are more common, expensive, and preventable (Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services, 2012c; QualityNet, 2012). Various interventions are implemented to reduce readmission rates, including enhanced education for patients during the discharge process, medication reconciliation, follow-ups, etc. (Koehler et al., 2009).

paragraph:2
Considering that healthcare resources (including physicians, nurses, and other medical resources) are very costly and limited, it is impractical and inappropriate for hospitals to provide equal efforts and interventions for all patients. Therefore, a prediction model that can be used to identify high-risk patients in advance could greatly benefit healthcare providers by enabling them to target resources on risky patients and, by extension, reduce the overall readmission rate (Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services, 2012b). Once a particular patient is identified as high-risk, intensive interventions can be made to prevent a potential readmission. To corroborate this, one study found that tele-monitoring high-risk patients and corresponding private health plans enabled a 15% reduction in readmissions at a home healthcare facility (Minott, 2008).

paragraph:3
However, the process of identifying patients who are very likely to be readmitted within 30 days of discharge is very difficult based on clinical expertise. This is due to the complex causes of readmission, such as a patient’s health condition, quality of inpatient care and social determinants. Therefore, the objective of this research is to model the readmission patterns appropriately to predict the likelihood of readmission accurately. To describe the implicit patterns that lead to readmission and non-readmission, there are two clusters of approaches: analytical modeling and data mining. Since the readmission patterns, i.e. the relationship between predictors and dependent variables, are unknown, it is impractical to build an analytical model for accurate pattern description. However, historical data provides good evidence of those implicit patterns. Consequently, researchers proposed the concept and various algorithms of data mining and machine learning to capture hidden patterns from data.

paragraph:4
Risk assessment models have been proposed to address the readmission problem for patients with various conditions such as general medicine patients and stroke and heart failure patients. In this research, the readmission rate of HF patients in a community hospital is studied. The majority of past research in hospital readmission used cohort study, logistic regression, and scoring systems to address the problem (Ross, Mulvey, & Stauffer, 2008). In general, existing risk-prediction models of hospital readmission perform poorly, according to the review research conducted by the Department of Veterans Affairs in 2011 (Kansagara, Englander, & Salanitro, 2011).

paragraph:5
In this study, classification models that use neural networks, random forest (RF) and support vector machines (SVM) are proposed to predict the readmission risk of a particular HF patient. The remainder of this paper is structured as follows: Section 2 discusses the related literature in risk prediction modeling, especially those applied to assess patients’ readmission risks. Proposed methodologies are described in Section 3; in Section 4, experiments are conducted to train and test those classification models, and the result analyses are discussed to compare the quality of those classifiers. Finally, the summary of this research and future work are addressed in Section 5.

end of line !

DOI:https://doi.org/10.1016/j.eswa.2015.04.066

Periodical:Expert Systems with Applications

Keywords:Neural networks, Support vector machine, Particle swarm optimization, Hospital readmission, Risk prediction, 

Title:Predictive modeling of hospital readmissions using metaheuristics and data mining

Abstract:This research studies the risk prediction of hospital readmissions using metaheuristic and data mining approaches. This is a critical issue in the U.S. healthcare system because a large percentage of preventable hospital readmissions derive from a low quality of care during patients’ stays in the hospital as well as poor arrangement of the discharge process. To reduce the number of hospital readmissions, the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services has launched a readmission penalty program in which hospitals receive reduced reimbursement for high readmission rates for Medicare beneficiaries. In the current practice, patient readmission risk is widely assessed by evaluating a LACE score including length of stay (L), acuity level of admission (A), comorbidity condition (C), and use of emergency rooms (E). However, the LACE threshold classifying high- and low-risk readmitted patients is set up by clinic practitioners based on specific circumstances and experiences. This research proposed various data mining approaches to identify the risk group of a particular patient, including neural network model, random forest (RF) algorithm, and the hybrid model of swarm intelligence heuristic and support vector machine (SVM). The proposed neural network algorithm, the RF and the SVM classifiers are used to model patients’ characteristics, such as their ages, insurance payers, medication risks, etc. Experiments are conducted to compare the performance of the proposed models with previous research. Experimental results indicate that the proposed prediction SVM model with particle swarm parameter tuning outperforms other algorithms and achieves 78.4% on overall prediction accuracy, 97.3% on sensitivity. The high sensitivity shows its strength in correctly identifying readmitted patients. The outcome of this research will help reduce overall hospital readmission rates and allow hospitals to utilize their resources more efficiently to enhance interventions for high-risk patients.