paragraph:1
Data mining (DM) techniques have formed a branch of applied Artificial Intelligence (AI) since the 1960s, several major kinds of data mining methods such as generalization, characterization, classification, clustering association, evolution, pattern matching, data visualization and meta-rule guided mining (Liao, Chu, & Hsiao, 2012). Prediction is one of major data mining functions used in the applications (Köksal, Batmaz, & Testik, 2011). Its broad applications include marketing, healthcare, civil engineering, and many others (Chen, Chiang, Wu, & Chu, 2013; Chou, 2009; Kao, Chen, & Chou, 2011; Koyuncugil & Ozgulbas, 2012; Küçüksille, Selbaş, & Şencan, 2009; Moreno Sáez, Sidrach-de-Cardona, & Mora-López, 2013). In addition, Köksal et al. (2011) comprehensively reviewed DM applications in manufacturing industries (Köksal et al., 2011). However, DM is rarely applied in the energy field, particularly to support energy efficiency.

paragraph:2
Taiwan, which imports 99.4% of its energy needs, has already begun replacing conventional meters with smart meters. Taiwan Power Company plans to install 1 million smart meters for its customers before 2015. To achieve this target, smart meter devices will be installed in 10 thousands households in 2012, and installations will gradually increase to 1 million devices during 2013 to 2015 (Lee, 2011). The aim of this policy is to improve energy efficiency and reduce carbon emissions in Taiwan. Based on the overseas experience in similar projects, policy makers have predicted that the devices will reduce carbon dioxide emissions in the future. Moreover, in many countries, current policies for reducing emissions coupled with growing public awareness of increased utilities price have increased the use of smart meters as monitoring tools (Bennett, Stewart, & Beal, 2013; Li, Fang, Mahatma, & Hampapur, 2011; Usman & Shami, 2013). Therefore improving refrigeration system performance via smart meter and data mining is an important research issue.

paragraph:3
As energy conservation and carbon reduction have recently become an important issue, investigation of large consumption energy systems has been prioritized (Bektas, Ekici, & Aksoy, 2011; Kalogirou, 2000; Oğuz, Sarıtas, & Baydan, 2010; Rodger, 2014; Soyguder & Alli, 2009). One of the facilities being studied is refrigeration systems for preserving food and for air conditioning, which constantly consume energy. Refrigeration systems are ubiquitous and can be found in many locations, including factories, households, offices, etc. Despite their wide spread use, the performance of these systems has not been fully investigated (Ahmed, Korres, Ploennigs, Elhadi, & Menzel, 2011; Ozgoren, Bilgili, & Babayigit, 2012; Şahin, 2011). Thus, developing an appropriate methodology for predicting refrigeration system performance based on refrigerant conditions is imperative.

paragraph:4
Although many studies of this problem have been performed, available studies using data mining approach of such energy systems are still rare. Notably, the electrical properties of refrigerant amount used in vapor compression refrigeration systems can only be determined through experiments. This study designed laboratory experiments to achieve this goal. All experimental data were retrieved from smart meters, which were also used to monitor electricity usage and user behavior. The DM techniques were used as analytical tools to predict the coefficient of performance (COP) under different refrigerant amounts.

paragraph:5
The DM techniques compared in this study included artificial neural networks (ANNs), support vector machines (SVMs), classification and regression tree (CART), multiple linear regression (MLR), generalized linear regression (GLR), and chi-squared automatic interaction detector (CHAID) techniques. The indicators used to evaluate model performance were mean absolute percentage error (MAPE), root mean square error (RMSE), mean absolute error (MAE) and correlation coefficient. Cross-fold validation was also performed to ensure a balanced view and to avoid bias from data.

paragraph:6
The rest of this paper is organized as follows. Research findings from previous studies are summarized in Section 2. Section 3 presents the data mining methodology used in this work. Section 4 describes the experimental design and monitoring system. Section 5 discusses the model implementation and analytical outcomes, i.e., model settings, cross-fold validation and the analysis results. The last section gives concluding remarks.

end of line !

DOI:https://doi.org/10.1016/j.eswa.2013.09.013

Periodical:Expert Systems with Applications

Keywords:Refrigeration management, Smart meter, Monitoring experiment, Data mining, Performance diagnosis, 

Title:Smart meter monitoring and data mining techniques for predicting refrigeration system performance

Abstract:A major challenge in many countries is providing sufficient energy for human beings and for supporting economic activities while minimizing social and environmental harm. This study predicted coefficient of performance (COP) for refrigeration equipment under varying amounts of refrigerant (R404A) with the aids of data mining (DM) techniques. The performance of artificial neural networks (ANNs), support vector machines (SVMs), classification and regression tree (CART), multiple regression (MR), generalized linear regression (GLR), and chi-squared automatic interaction detector (CHAID) were applied within DM process. After obtaining the COP value, abnormal equipment conditions can be evaluated for refrigerant leakage. Analytical results from cross-fold validation method are compared to determine the best models. The study shows that DM techniques can be used for accurately and efficiently predicting COP. In the liquid leakage phase, ANNs provide the best performance. In the vapor leakage phase, the best model is the GLR model. Experimental results confirm that systematic analyses of model construction processes are effective for evaluating and optimizing refrigeration equipment performance.